Q1. Explain Class and Object with respect to Object-Oriented Programming. Give a suitable example.
ANS. class is just a clasification of real world entity.
     object - object stands for real world entity.
EXAMPLE - class test :
            def pwskills(self):
                prite('welcome to pwskills')
                
object - uzair = pwskills()



Q2. Name the four pillars of OOPs.
ANS . These four pillars are Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation and Abstraction.


Q3. Explan why the __init__() function is used. Give a suitable example.
ANS. __init__ is called constrecter .is a special method in Python classes that is automatically called when an object of that class is created. 
     Its purpose is to initialize the attributes of the class with the given parameters.
exm. class Person:
    def __init__(self, name, age):
        self.name = name
        self.age = age

person = Person("John", 30)
print(person.name) # Output: John
print(person.age) # Output: 30






Q4. Why self is used in OOPs?
ANS. self is used for binding the method to the class.
     after thst class is understands this method inside with me.

Q5. What is inheritance? Give an example for each type of inheritance.
ANS. Inheritance is a mechanism in object-oriented programming (OOP) where an object of a class 
     can inherit properties and methods from its parent class. 
     There are several types of inheritance:
   Single inheritance: A class inherits properties and methods from a single parent class. For example, in a class hierarchy, a "Bird" class could inherit from an "Animal" class.

   Multiple inheritance: A class inherits properties and methods from multiple parent classes. For example, in a class hierarchy, a "Penguin" class could inherit from both "Bird" and "AquaticAnimal" classes.

  Multilevel inheritance: A class inherits properties and methods from a parent class, and that parent class inherits from a grandparent class. For example, in a class hierarchy, a "Duck" class could inherit from a "Bird" class, which inherits from an "Animal" class.

  Hierarchical inheritance: Multiple child classes inherit from a single parent class. For example, in a class hierarchy, multiple bird species classes (e.g. "Eagle", "Pigeon") could inherit from a "Bird" class.

  Hybrid inheritance: A combination of two or more types of inheritance. For example, a class could inherit properties and methods from multiple parent classes, and one of those parent classes could inherit from another parent class.

